# Vitality_Fitness_Tracker_Pro_FrankIvey_MariaLeal_SinthujaBates-FinalProject_Group_1_AAI_530_Data_Analytics_and_the_Internet_of_Things_02242024
Final Project Group 1: Vitality Fitness Tracker Pro - USD

#  Dataset. 
This project is a part of the AAI-530 course in the Applied Artificial Intelligence Program at the University of San Diego (USD). 
Project Status: [Completed]

## Installation
To use this project, first clone the repo on your device using the below command:
git clone https://github.com/maleal2/Fitness_Tracker_wearable_device_project_Group_1

## Project Introduction
   The data utilized for training our Vitality Fitness Tracker Pro is sourced from a dataset generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between March 2, 2016, and May 12, 2015. 
   The same dataset is available on the Kaggle website and is annually updated. We proceeded to use the following datasets: dailyActivity_merged.csv, sleepDay_merged.csv, and weightLoginfo_merged.csv.As part of the analysis process, we selected each "id," which represents everyone's tracked metric history, and "datetime" as unique indexes to facilitate later time series and deep learning analysis. 
   After combining the three datasets into a single merged dataset, we obtained a total of 943 data points and 18 distinct features. Additionally, for cleaning the merged dataset in case of any missing values, we applied interpolation based on the "cubic method," which historically performs well in time series analysis.

## Contributors
Frank Ivey, Maria Leal, and Sinthuja Bates. 
   
## Methods Used
1. Basic Data cleaning inspection.
2. Long Short Term Memory RNNs ( Recurral Neural Networks ). 
3. Long Short Term Memory with Sequal layers.
4. Mean Squared Error ( MSE ).
5. Principal Component Analysis.
6. Time series Autoregressive Analysis.
7. Tableau Public.

## Technologies
   Python, Pytorch 
   
## Project Description
Data source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit
Name of the variables:
1.	TotalSteps
2.	TotalDistance
3.	VeryActiveDistance
4.	ModeratelyActiveDistance	
5.	LightActiveDistance	
6.	SedentaryActiveDistance	
7.	VeryActiveMinutes	
8.	FairlyActiveMinutes	
9.	LightlyActiveMinutes	
10.	SedentaryMinutes	
11.	Calories
12.	TotalSleepRecords
13.	TotalMinutesAsleep
14.	TotalTimeInBed
15.	WeightKg
16.	WeightPounds
17.	Fat
18.	BMI

Number of variables: 18

Size of the dataset:  943

Used Descriptive Analysis, RNNs, Time Series Autoregression Model using Long Short Term Memory, Principal Component Analysis. 

## Acknowledgments
Thank you Professor An Tran and Professor Anna Marbut for your excellent  class. 
